---
layout: posts
title: 3.23.0 release
date: 2026-02-25
author: an
---

FreeRDP 3.23.0 has just been released and uploaded to

[https://pub.freerdp.com/releases/](https://pub.freerdp.com/releases/)

# 2026-02-25 Version 3.23.0

A new release and again a lot of changes:
* We've received in depth analysis of FreeRDP client code and have addressed shortcomings uncovered by these.
CVE-2026-26965
CVE-2026-26955
CVE-2026-26271
CVE-2026-25997
CVE-2026-25959
CVE-2026-25955
CVE-2026-25954
CVE-2026-25953
CVE-2026-25952
CVE-2026-25942
CVE-2026-25941

Another weakness was reported, see https://github.com/FreeRDP/FreeRDP/security/advisories/GHSA-qcfc-ghxr-h927

* Configuration isolation was added. 3rd party client/server applications should check
  the new API freerdp_setApplicationDetails and winpr_setApplicationDetails which allows
  using a custom namespace for configuration files and runtime data per application
* For developers, we've marked most of the API with [[nodiscard]] now so compilers
  might start complaining about unchecked return values now. This is intentional and should
  give some incentive to clean up code. Functions where the return is optional have been
  omitted. For the time being these checks are automatically applied for FreeRDP builds, external
  projects can opt in by defining WINPR_DEFINE_ATTR_NODISCARD in their build system.
* For developers: Please start testing your applications against FreeRDP builds with
  `-DWITHOUT_FREERDP_3x_DEPRECATED=ON` to ensure you're not using some soon to be removed API.
* SDL client did get a huge update, multimonitor and high DPI modes are now much improved
* We got a contribution for smartcard channel adding support for new attributes, so more
  applications might work now.

## New Contributors
* @tsz8899 made their first contribution in (#12279)
* @morgan9e made their first contribution in (#12298)
* @Wladefant made their first contribution in (#12309)

For a complete and detailed change log since the last release run:
git log 3.23.0...3.22.0


